Help File for our group for working with MAVEN

Starting up with Maven

If you want to do anything with Maven and you're running gitBash, you will likely need to use the export command. 
Export the address of your maven folder to be stored as a global variable.

 
Use export PATH=$PATH:"..."
inside the quotations put the path of you bin folder in the directory storing maven's files,

for example I use the command.
..
export PATH=$PATH:"C:\Program Files\apache-maven-3.3.9\bin"



Starting to work on with the bitbucket...

If want to start working with our you'll need to clone the directory to your computer first.
Use the command...
git clone ssh://git@repo.gaul.csd.uwo.ca:7999/cs2212_w2016/team05.git 

That should copy everything to your computer that's in the directory.



What if changes were made since you cloned the directory to your computer?

You'll want to use the git pull command.
This will update your computer with any changes that have been made.



What if you want to start working on stuff?

What you need to do is go onto our JIRA page.
Look for the issue/userstory/task that you want to work on.
After finding it and click on it. Look for "development" and click on Create Branch.
Make a "feature" branch, that branches off of DEV, or some other thing related to what you're working on.
Now in git / gitBash you have to move to the branch that you just created. Then you can start working there.


How do I move to a different branch?

To move to a different branch use the command...
git checkout (branch name)
for example...
git checkout feature/W162212T99-3-the-user-can-see-their-daily


How do I see which branch I am on?

type...
git branch


How do I see other branch names?

Use the command
git branch -a


I finished working on something, what now?

Make sure you are in the highest directory for the branch you are working in then...
You should use the command...
git add .
This puts your changes in the staging area...
Then use...
git commit -m "A note for what changes you're making"
Which sets the changes ready to be merged. Then use
git push
Which will merge changes to the branch in our bitbucket directory.


My changes were added to a bitbucket branch, what now?

We'll eventually want to merge all our changes to /DEV. Which is our main branch.
You'll need to go to bitBucket and try to merge the changes.
You'll need to get another group member to accept the merges to /DEV.


I want to test stuff, what do I do?

Make sure every file you need is in the java and resources folder.
Go to the top of the directory and use the mvn command
mvn package
This will create an executable jar file that you'll be able to run using the command.

java -jar target/...

What comes after target depends on what .jar file was created after using "mvn package"
Either way though, the file you are running will be in the target folder.
